translator: support tcp cloud load-balancing (#12)
mesosphere/dklb: docs/usage/11-provisioning-tcp-cloud-loadbalancers.adoc

:sectnums:
:numbered:
:toc: macro
:toc-title:
:toclevels: 3
:numbered!:
ifdef::env-github[]
:tip-caption: :bulb:
:note-caption: :information_source:
:important-caption: :heavy_exclamation_mark:
:caution-caption: :fire:
:warning-caption: :warning:
endif::[]

= Provisioning TCP Cloud Load-Balancers
:icons: font

[discrete]
== Table of Contents
toc::[]

== Introduction

> `dklb` supports exposing Kubernetes services of type `LoadBalancer` via cloud load-balancers.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
EdgeLB supports exposing Kubernetes services of type `LoadBalancer` via cloud providers' load-balancing solution. Service resources may be annotated so that `dklb` instructs EdgeLB to enable this feature for the respective pools.
```

> As of this writing, cloud load-balancers are supported only in DC/OS clusters launched in AWS.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As of this writing, only [AWS ELB](https://aws.amazon.com/elasticloadbalancing/), and more specifically [NLB](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/elasticloadbalancing/latest/network/introduction.html), is supported by EdgeLB, and therefore `dklb`.
```

== Instructions

=== Specifying the configuration for the cloud load-balancer

`dklb` must read the cloud load-balancer's configuration from a https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/configure-pod-container/configure-pod-configmap/[config map].
This config map must exist in the same Kubernetes namespace as the `Service` resource being exposed via a cloud load-balancer, and must obey the following structure:

[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: v1
data:
  spec: |
    <spec>
kind: ConfigMap
metadata:
  name: "<cloud-loadbalancer-configmap>"
----

In particular, it must have a key named `spec` containing the desired configuration for the cloud load-balancer.
Further details on `<spec>` are provided below.

=== Linking the configuration to the `Service` resource

In order for `dklb` to provision a cloud load-balancer for a given `Service` resource, said resource must be annotated with the following annotation:

[source,text]
----
kubernetes.dcos.io/cloud-loadbalancer-config: "<cloud-loadbalancer-configmap>"
----

> When said annotation is specified on a `Service` resource, `dklb` creates a _dedicated_ EdgeLB pool for the `Service` resource.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When said annotation is specified for a `Service` resource, `dklb` creates a _dedicated_ EdgeLB pool for the `Service` resource.
```

> This EdgeLB pool is called `ext--<cluster-name>--<namespace>--<name>`, and has a single HAProxy instance, running on a private DC/OS agent.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This EdgeLB pool is called `ext--<cluster-name>--<namespace-name>--<service-name>`, and has a single instance, running on a private DC/OS agent.
```

> From this moment on, no further customization of the EdgeLB pool via `kubernetes.dcos.io/edgelb-pool-*` annotations is supported.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[WARNING]
====
From this moment on, further customization of the EdgeLB pool via `kubernetes.dcos.io/edgelb-pool-*` annotations is ignored.
====
```

[WARNING]
====
The fact that `dklb` creates a new, dedicated EdgeLB pool means that any EdgeLB pool previously being used to expose the `Service` resource will be left untouched from the moment the annotation is specified.
The user is responsible for removing said EdgeLB pool _manually_ using the EdgeLB CLI.
====

==== Connecting to the cloud load-balancer

> After the aforementioned annotation is specified, `dklb` will start provisioning the cloud load-balancer according to the provided configuration.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After the aforementioned annotation is specified, `dklb` will instruct EdgeLB to create a cloud load-balancer according to the provided configuration.
```

The hostname that should be used to connect to the cloud load-balancer will usually be reported shortly after in the `.status` field of the `Service` resource.

== Configuration

As mentioned above, the configuration for the cloud load-balancer must be specified via a config map that obeys the following structure:

[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: v1
data:
spec: |
 <spec>
kind: ConfigMap
metadata:
name: "<cloud-loadbalancer-configmap>"
----

> The actual contents of `<spec>` depend on the cloud provider being used.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The actual contents of `<spec>` depend on the cloud provider being used and are defined by EdgeLB. Please, read EdgeLB pool configuration documentation for more detailed information.
```
